DEVELOPMENT PROCESS -

After adding all of the necessary elements to the index.html file, I created a sketch.js. I started with the setup function, and made a canvas which I intended to use to display the generative art itself. Then I made the draw function, and started to add white ellipses to look like stars in the background. However, I soon realised that I wanted a lot more of these than I had time to plot. I then came up with the solution of a for loop. I made one function to outline the elements of the start that should stay the same, (e.g. size and colour). And then another function which included the for loop, outlining that 1000 stars needed to created and distrusted randomly. Next I began plotting the locations and sizes for the smaller circles I wanted in the rotating galaxy. During this process, I accidentally created one of the ellipses too big, but decided to keep it and move it as I thought it looked like a planet, which filled the dead space well. After all of the ellipse were done, I coded the mechanism to allow the planets and galaxy to rotate. This took a lot of experimentation, as I was not too familiar with the mathematics, so I instead tried different numbers and multipliers until I found a route, angle and speed that I liked. Once completed and running, I realised that the background had to be reset for the motion to work. This became a problem because it meant the stars were no longer appearing. After trying lots of different methods, I eventually discovered that I could move the drawBackgroundStars function to the setup instead of the draw, and use an array to redraw the stars every refresh. This meant that the stars disappear and reappear a few times a second which is more noticeable than I had hoped. However, it makes it look as if the stars in the background are flickering, so I decided not to change this. To finish off the sketch, I wrote the code for the sliders, so that the user can change some of the colours in the canvas. To do this I created a variable for each slider, assigned the correct rbg ranges to each one, and put the code for the sliders under the draw function. Finally I set up a stylesheet in CSS. I used this to design the layout, format and colours of the page. 
Overall, I think that there are some improvements I could make overall. Firstly I would like to make the user interface more friendly, for example - some coloured boxes behind the sliders. In addition, I would like to add some more complex customisation elements. For example, textures and shaders for the planets. In addition, I had an issue where I made a function, hoping that the colour in the moving galaxy would change to blue on a mouse release. If I had the opportunity and time to improve, I would like to fix that mechanism so it works after a click. At the moment it is instantly blue with no interaction. Altogether, I am happy with the outcome of my piece. 


PURPOSE AND USE -

In my webpage I wanted to take inspiration from organic, real life peices of art, so I chose space. My idea was to focus on something that people can recognise, and draw on some of the aspects that change over time. I knew I wanted to include motion, as the whole of the universe moves. However I didn't want to do anything too over the top, as I wanted to represent space accurately as well as creatively. Encapsulating space gave me structure and allowed me to represent realism in my work, which for me personally is important in art. However as there is a lot we do not yet know about space, it also allowed me some creative freedom to leave some aspects to interpretation and interaction. For example, the randomly generated stars represent all that is still unknown about the universe, and the constant changes that happen in space. 

When viewing the page, the user can interact with three sets of sliders located under the canvas, each set has a label stating which planet they can be used for. The user can interact with all nine sliders to change the R G B values of the planets. As they do this the planets and galaxies will move across the screen. This means that there hundreds of different possibilies and outcomes of how the peice will look.




